Dear colleagues,

I wish to present a project proposal to you. I believe it has the potential to have a major impact on the information presentation industry, and to make us a lot of money.

balance.js is a JavaScript frontend development framework. It aims to be an alternative to HTML, CSS, the DOM, and frameworks built on top of these. It uses basic HTML canvas drawing instructions to do low-level graphics rendering. Higher-level frontend development APIs are built from scratch based on a new document layout paradigm.

balance.js aims to greatly simplify the process of frontend development while greatly increasing the creative options open to frontend designers. 

Initially I am targeting Web frontends, but balance.js can also be retargeted to produce PDFs, images, and mobile apps, and this should be pretty straightforward to do. Using balance.js to produce 3D/VR user interfaces would be less straightforward but also entirely possible.

I have been working on balance.js for around two years. The basic objective of this R&D has been to simplify and modernize the design of the TeX typesetting engine, to produce a retargetable document rendering engine which is simpler and more flexible than existing alternatives. The purpose of doing so is to reduce the complexity and cost involved in developing frontends, while allowing for higher quality results and wider creative possibilities.

My confidence is high that balance.js will deliver on these goals. To make my case concrete, I have attached design documentation and working code. These artifacts demonstrate a mathematical and philosophical theory of document layout which I am in the process of translating into production-ready JavaScript.

I am proposing to make balance.js into an IHS Markit project. This is conditional on the two parties, IHS Markit and I, establishing mutual interest after appropriate due diligence, and agreeing on terms of such a relationship.

I see the following value propositions for IHS Markit in pursuing my proposal. balance.js can empower us to provide higher quality, lower costs, and exciting new features to our clients, in the area of information presentation solutions. If IHS Markit delivers balance.js to the world, then frontend developers who love balance.js are likely to be attracted to work at IHS Markit. I believe this would be great for our company's numbers in the long run.

It reflects my high regard for this audience that I'm presenting this proposal to IHS Markit. There are a number of high caliber people with companies who are quite interested in what I'm doing! This provides an additional reason to consider my proposal: if you do not, somebody else may!

I wish to thank you for your time and attention, and to express my happiness to be engaging you on this topic!

Morgan
