A production ready version of balance.js would provide immediate benefits to IHS Markit. I believe that balance.js would empower us to raise quality and lower costs in our information presentation solution development process. In this office, the processes that could be positively impacted by balance.js include frontend Web development, Image Engineering work, and mobile development.

Why can balance.js help us raise quality in our information presentation solutions?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. By design it will make Web pages accessible without special effort from the developer.

2. It will allow us to express design requirements as preferences. balance.js allows one to express a designer's preferences numerically, and it will automatically find the most preferable layout for whatever data and viewport size are at hand. I call this optimization-based layout.

Many examples can be given of how optimization-based layout can enable us to improve the quality of our information presentations. Paragraphs can be laid out with avoidance of widows and orphans, intelligent hyphenation of words, and justified alignment that actually looks good in most cases. Table columns can be sized automatically to whatever widths look best with the current data. Layout grids in general can have their rows and columns automatically sized to whatever looks best.

3. balance.js would widen the space of creative options our designers can reasonably ask us to implement.

4. balance.js can, given further research, be applied to making 3D/VR user interfaces, providing a plausible general way forward in that direction.


Why can balance.js help us lower costs in our information presentation solutions?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. It can replace several complex and limited technologies which are part of our current workflows with one simple and powerful technology. It can replace the following technologies in our current workflows: HTML/CSS/the DOM, a lot of Image Engineering apps, and mobile UI SDKs. This would let anybody who knows balance.js work for us on any of these problem domains.

2. By design it will make it easy and natural to make Web pages accessible.

3. CSS and HTML are quite difficult and clunky to work with, as all Web developers are aware. Using CSS and HTML usually requires a lot of time spent manually tweaking stuff and being frustrated. With the advantage of preference-based layout, balance.js would probably eliminate the need for most of that manual tweaking.
